evaluation.markdown, before:

# Course Structure

This course will be taught as a seminar.
While the instructor will at times present material to complement the
  readings, much of the time will be spent discussing and analyzing
  the readings.
Students are expected to take responsibility for their learning of the
  material through active engagement with the assigned readings,
  through participation in course discussion, and through their
  individual work on a research paper.

# Deliverables and Evaluation

Grades will be based on the following components:

  * preparation for the class (“memos,” **15%** of the course grade),
  * contribution to class discussion (**15%**),
  * the term paper (three deliverables jointly worth **50%**),
  * reviews of other students’ paper proposals (**10%**),
  * a course “patch” (**10%**, see below).

### Contribution to Class Discussion — 15%

As the course will be taught in the form of a seminar, students will
  be graded for their contribution to the class discussion.
<span class="important">Please be advised that contribution does not
  mean attendance.</span>
(Of course, you cannot contribute without being present.)
Students who attend the class but remain silent will earn no
  credit.
Nor, however, does it mean simply speaking a lot.
Rather, students are expected to come to class prepared, actively
  listen to what is being said by others and then make contributions
  to the discussion that take advantage of their own understanding of
  the readings and of what has been said up to that point.
Class discussion will follow a structure that will be described in a
  handout.
Each student will be asked to serve as one of the “chairs” for
  one week’s discussion and as a “panelist” on several other ones.
Students who have difficulty speaking in public should see the
  instructor early in the semester, so that we could discuss possible
  remedies.

### Memos — 15%

For all classes other than the first and the last, the students will
  prepare “memos” on the readings assigned for that class.
Each memo should be no longer than 1 page and should be formatted in
  accordance with this template:
  [memo_template.pdf](handouts/memo_template.pdf),
  [memo_template.odt](handouts/memo_template.odt),
  [memo_template.doc](handouts/memo_template.doc),
  [memo_template.rft](handouts/memo_template.rtf).

The purpose of the memos is to help you make better sense of the
  readings and to increase the quality of the in-class discussion by
  ensuring that all students arrive to class having done the readings
  and having spent some time thinking about them.

Each memo should consist of four sections.

* Central issues in the readings;
* The points on which the authors agree and disagree;
* Your position on the issues (with explanation);
* Three questions for discussion in the class (provide a brief
  explanation of your questions if necessary).
  
The memos are due by email, <span class="important">by 8 am of the day
  of each class</span>. (Please see below on the late policy for
  memos.)
  Please <span class="important">email your memo as a PDF attachment to all members of your team **and** the instructor.</span>
  Please <span class="important">put “INF2303 memo for *date* class” for subject.</span>
  (Subsitute the correct date of the class, e.g., “INF2303 memo for July 10 class.”)
Students responsible for chairing each class will be tasked with
  reading and summarizing submitted memos in writing.

### Term Paper and Presentation - 50%

A major component of the course is a term paper exploring a specific
  topic related to the content of the course.

There are three deliverables related to this term paper, including:

* a paper proposal,
* a presentation (on August 19),
* the final paper.

The proposal, the presentation, and the final paper will be graded
  <span class="important">together</span> and will be jointly worth
  50% of your grade.

It is recommended that students work on their papers in <span
  class="important">teams of two</span>.
However, they can opt to work individually or in groups of three.

Students can pick paper topics that best align with their professional
  interests, as long as there is a clear relationship to the topics
  discussed in the course and as long as the topic is discussed in
  appropriate depth.
Here are some examples of appropriate topics:

* A paper analysing available free / open source software for
  libraries and making an argument for or against use of such software
  over proprietary solutions.
* A paper exploring the history of a particular F/OSS product to
  challenge some of the common assumptions about how such projects
  work.
* A paper looking at information management practices in a F/OSS
  project, pointing to ways such practices could be applied in other
  domains or suggesting improvements.
* A paper analyzing peer production of a particular kind of digital
  goods other than software.

<i>The list above is meant to exemplify appropriate topics and is not
  exhaustive.</i>

Due to the short duration of the course, students should start working
  on their papers <span class="important">very early</span>, ideally
  not later than the second week of the course.

#### Paper Proposal

Prior to developing the paper, each team will prepare a paper
  proposal.
The teams will share their paper proposals with the rest of the class
  to receive feedback from other students.

The **main text** of the proposal should be up to 2 pages long and
  should answer the following questions:

* What is the topic that the paper will focus on?
* Why is this topic interesting in the context of this course?
* What claims do you expect to make in this paper and how do you
  expect to support them?

Your proposal should also include a **2 page annotated bibliography** of the
  sources you intend to use.
Each source should be accompanied by a brief description, stating what
  it is about and how you plan to use it.

Paper proposals will not receive individual grades, but will be graded
  together with the final paper.


#### Final Presentation

Each team will make a short (5-10 minutes) presentation about their research on the last day of class.

#### Final Term Paper

The final deliverable is a paper of 5,000–7,000 words, due at the end
  of the semester.
The papers will be shared with other students and will be evaluated by
  the instructor according to the following criteria:

* **Use of sources.** The paper should be based on substantial
  research — you should plan to drawing on academic books and
  articles, not on blogs or Wikipedia. The sources need to be used and
  documented in an appropriate way.
* **Quality of the argument.** The paper should present a coherent and
  original argument.
  It should not repeat what is readily available in other sources.
  It also should not meander through a collection of unrelated ideas.
* **Quality of writing.** The paper should be well written. Being well
  written means your use of language should not stand in the way of
  the reader’s comprehension of your text, either by obfuscating the
  meaning or by drawing the reader’s attention from the content of
  your writing to its form.

The final grade for the paper will also incorporate an assessment of
  your original proposal and the presentation.

### Paper Proposal Reviews — 10%

Each student will receive three proposals from other teams and will
  then be asked to write a review of each proposal.
The reviews should be constructive in their focus and aim to help the
  author of each proposal improve their paper.
Each review should be 1–2 pages long and can include a bibliography if
  appropriate.
(If you include a bibliography, do not count it towards the page
  limit.)

### A Course “Patch” — 10%

Each student will be asked to submit a “patch” (modification) to the
  course.
The patches will be submitted via Github, which will include the
  actual modification and a brief summary.
Additionally, a one-page justification should be submitted via email.

Commit message:

Added the link to the course syllabus on github.

evaluation.markdown, after:

# Course Structure

This course will be taught as a seminar.
While the instructor will at times present material to complement the
  readings, much of the time will be spent discussing and analyzing
  the readings.
Students are expected to take responsibility for their learning of the
  material through active engagement with the assigned readings,
  through participation in course discussion, and through their
  individual work on a research paper.

# Deliverables and Evaluation

Grades will be based on the following components:

  * preparation for the class (“memos,” **15%** of the course grade),
  * contribution to class discussion (**15%**),
  * the term paper (three deliverables jointly worth **50%**),
  * reviews of other students’ paper proposals (**10%**),
  * a course “patch” (**10%**, see below).

### Contribution to Class Discussion — 15%

As the course will be taught in the form of a seminar, students will
  be graded for their contribution to the class discussion.
<span class="important">Please be advised that contribution does not
  mean attendance.</span>
(Of course, you cannot contribute without being present.)
Students who attend the class but remain silent will earn no
  credit.
Nor, however, does it mean simply speaking a lot.
Rather, students are expected to come to class prepared, actively
  listen to what is being said by others and then make contributions
  to the discussion that take advantage of their own understanding of
  the readings and of what has been said up to that point.
Class discussion will follow a structure that will be described in a
  handout.
Each student will be asked to serve as one of the “chairs” for
  one week’s discussion and as a “panelist” on several other ones.
Students who have difficulty speaking in public should see the
  instructor early in the semester, so that we could discuss possible
  remedies.

### Memos — 15%

For all classes other than the first and the last, the students will
  prepare “memos” on the readings assigned for that class.
Each memo should be no longer than 1 page and should be formatted in
  accordance with this template:
  [memo_template.pdf](handouts/memo_template.pdf),
  [memo_template.odt](handouts/memo_template.odt),
  [memo_template.doc](handouts/memo_template.doc),
  [memo_template.rft](handouts/memo_template.rtf).

The purpose of the memos is to help you make better sense of the
  readings and to increase the quality of the in-class discussion by
  ensuring that all students arrive to class having done the readings
  and having spent some time thinking about them.

Each memo should consist of four sections.

* Central issues in the readings;
* The points on which the authors agree and disagree;
* Your position on the issues (with explanation);
* Three questions for discussion in the class (provide a brief
  explanation of your questions if necessary).
  
The memos are due by email, <span class="important">by 8 am of the day
  of each class</span>. (Please see below on the late policy for
  memos.)
  Please <span class="important">email your memo as a PDF attachment to all members of your team **and** the instructor.</span>
  Please <span class="important">put “INF2303 memo for *date* class” for subject.</span>
  (Subsitute the correct date of the class, e.g., “INF2303 memo for July 10 class.”)
Students responsible for chairing each class will be tasked with
  reading and summarizing submitted memos in writing.

### Term Paper and Presentation - 50%

A major component of the course is a term paper exploring a specific
  topic related to the content of the course.

There are three deliverables related to this term paper, including:

* a paper proposal,
* a presentation (on August 19),
* the final paper.

The proposal, the presentation, and the final paper will be graded
  <span class="important">together</span> and will be jointly worth
  50% of your grade.

It is recommended that students work on their papers in <span
  class="important">teams of two</span>.
However, they can opt to work individually or in groups of three.

Students can pick paper topics that best align with their professional
  interests, as long as there is a clear relationship to the topics
  discussed in the course and as long as the topic is discussed in
  appropriate depth.
Here are some examples of appropriate topics:

* A paper analysing available free / open source software for
  libraries and making an argument for or against use of such software
  over proprietary solutions.
* A paper exploring the history of a particular F/OSS product to
  challenge some of the common assumptions about how such projects
  work.
* A paper looking at information management practices in a F/OSS
  project, pointing to ways such practices could be applied in other
  domains or suggesting improvements.
* A paper analyzing peer production of a particular kind of digital
  goods other than software.

<i>The list above is meant to exemplify appropriate topics and is not
  exhaustive.</i>

Due to the short duration of the course, students should start working
  on their papers <span class="important">very early</span>, ideally
  not later than the second week of the course.

#### Paper Proposal

Prior to developing the paper, each team will prepare a paper
  proposal.
The teams will share their paper proposals with the rest of the class
  to receive feedback from other students.

The **main text** of the proposal should be up to 2 pages long and
  should answer the following questions:

* What is the topic that the paper will focus on?
* Why is this topic interesting in the context of this course?
* What claims do you expect to make in this paper and how do you
  expect to support them?

Your proposal should also include a **2 page annotated bibliography** of the
  sources you intend to use.
Each source should be accompanied by a brief description, stating what
  it is about and how you plan to use it.

Paper proposals will not receive individual grades, but will be graded
  together with the final paper.


#### Final Presentation

Each team will make a short (5-10 minutes) presentation about their research on the last day of class.

#### Final Term Paper

The final deliverable is a paper of 5,000–7,000 words, due at the end
  of the semester.
The papers will be shared with other students and will be evaluated by
  the instructor according to the following criteria:

* **Use of sources.** The paper should be based on substantial
  research — you should plan to drawing on academic books and
  articles, not on blogs or Wikipedia. The sources need to be used and
  documented in an appropriate way.
* **Quality of the argument.** The paper should present a coherent and
  original argument.
  It should not repeat what is readily available in other sources.
  It also should not meander through a collection of unrelated ideas.
* **Quality of writing.** The paper should be well written. Being well
  written means your use of language should not stand in the way of
  the reader’s comprehension of your text, either by obfuscating the
  meaning or by drawing the reader’s attention from the content of
  your writing to its form.

The final grade for the paper will also incorporate an assessment of
  your original proposal and the presentation.

### Paper Proposal Reviews — 10%

Each student will receive three proposals from other teams and will
  then be asked to write a review of each proposal.
The reviews should be constructive in their focus and aim to help the
  author of each proposal improve their paper.
Each review should be 1–2 pages long and can include a bibliography if
  appropriate.
(If you include a bibliography, do not count it towards the page
  limit.)

### A Course “Patch” — 10%

Each student will be asked to submit a “patch” (modification) to the
  course.
The “source files” for the course syllabus are available on Github at
  <https://github.com/yuri/inf2303>.
The patches will be submitted via Github, which will include the
  actual modification and a brief summary.
Additionally, a one-page justification should be submitted via email.
